---
published: false
---
## Introduction

Local Hack Day is an event I organized in both Fall 2016 and again a few days ago in Fall 2017. It's a 12-hour hackathon held at multiple universities around the world, with help from [Major League Hacking](http://www.mlh.io). I'm writing this post as a way to document 1) what planning is required in order to organize an LHD (specifically at Temple University, but can be generalized for other situations), and 2) as a way of passing down this knowledge to other students (both here and at other schools) to organize more in the future. I organized this event largely by myself both times, but it is very helpful to spread this responsibility between several people so it's not too stressful for one person.

I'll be separating this post into different parts:
### 1. Sponsorship
### 2. Venue
### 3. Advertising
### 4. Catering
### 5. Logistics

---

## Sponsorship

Sponsorship is essential to this event, because without sponsors you don't have any source of funding, objectives for prizes, judges, or a source of tech talks. Sponsorship should be sought out early, about 3-4 months before the start of the event. I started by creating a sponsorship document outlining different tiers of sponsorship (title, gold, and silver), the cost of each one, and what benefits that specific tier entails for the sponsor.

A good sponsorship document should outline the following:
1. What the event is.
2. The intended audience for the hackathon.
3. Why you require sponsorship.
4. What the sponsorship is used for.
5. A table of tiers, and different perks each offers compared to the others.